# 121-Final-Project

This is the CMPM121 final project repository

## Devlog Entry = [11/22/2024]

### F0 Reflection

Our team's plan was to divide and conquer the different software requirements. We each split up the different requirements and started parallel programming with each other for several hours. We all contributed an equal amount to make sure that we all had an equal share to the project itself. We honestly didn't reconsider our roles that we originally decided on because we all jumped into the roles that someone else needed, so our roles ended up existing as delagated responsibilities rather than restrictive jobs for each person. As we all worked on different software requirements, when some people on the team finished, they then helped those with requirements that were giving them trouble. Our outlook changed from simply dividing the work up by part, to using that notion as an initial goal for each person, and grouping up as needed to finish the whole project. Helping each other in each aspect of the software requirements allowed us to understand each aspect of the project. Finally we all sat together and merged all our aspects from our branches to make sure it all meshed and worked together well and tied logic from our various requirements together. Being that each person had looked at all the other team member's code, it was easier for us to tie together all of our hard work at the end.

## Devlog Entry = [11/21/2024]

We all got together to work on discord to complete F0 requirments, keeping in mind the released F1 requirements. Liveshare, Github Desktop, and Discord Whiteboard were the tools most immediately relevent to our progress. We had already set up the framework for most of the things we finished on the 21st when we worked in person, and we made sure to have individual branches we could use to fiddle in the meantime, so completing the F0 requirements went smoothly. In addition to finishing those, we chose to integrate Prettier into our repository and will be using that as our code formatter for the forseable remainder of the project.

### How we satisfied the software requirements

-   [x] [F0.a] You control a character moving over a 2D grid.
    -   The player moves by occupying the tile space the cursor pressed indicates they should occupy.
-   [x] [F0.b] You advance time manually in the turn-based simulation.
    -   The button at the top of the tile world increments time by an hour at a time.
-   [x] [F0.c] You can reap or sow plants on grid cells only when you are near them.
    -   Players can sow plants onto the tile they are standing on by pressing the 'E' key. Players can reap plants that they are standing on by pressing the 'SPACE' key.
-   [x] [F0.d] Grid cells have sun and water levels. The incoming sun and water for each cell is somehow randomly generated each turn. Sun energy cannot be stored in a cell (it is used immediately or lost) while water moisture can be slowly accumulated over several turns.
    -   Plants have water_req and sun_req to correspond to their given tile's changing water and sun levels, which are generated by a random weather event function, rewriting the sun level and adding to the water level.
-   [x] [F0.e] Each plant on the grid has a distinct type (e.g. one of 3 species) and a growth level (e.g. “level 1”, “level 2”, “level 3”).
    -   Plants have the species and growth level attributes to govern their creation and upgrades.
-   [x] [F0.f] Simple spatial rules govern plant growth based on sun, water, and nearby plants (growth is unlocked by satisfying conditions).
    -   Each plant has a grow function and growth rules that are passed in as parameters when constructed. When time is advanced, the plant checks the sun and water levels for its given tile, as well as the number of adjacent plants in the tiles around it. If those levels satisfy the growth requirements, the plant increases in growth level, and consumes the relevant resources from the tile.
-   [x] [F0.g] A play scenario is completed when some condition is satisfied (e.g. at least X plants at growth level Y or above).
    -   When players have at least 3 plants above growth level 3, the play scenario has been completed, and a console log statement saying 'GAME WON' will be outputted.

## Devlog Entry = [11/17/2024]

We went to James's house to work together on setting up defaults and initial tile-based movement. We used Live Share to make our collaboration smooth. In the future, we will be using individual branches, but for the initial tile-movement setup, we decided that group programming was best, since the grid would be the basis of the rest of the project.

### How we satisfied the software requirements

-   [x] [F0.a] You control a character moving over a 2D grid.
    -   The player moves by occupying the tile space the cursor pressed indicates they should occupy.

## Devlog Entry - [11/12/2024]

### Initial Setup

Our group rented out a study room in the Science and Engineering library to come up with the plan for how we will implement our final project and also how to put together this DevLog.

### Introducing the team

Rozy Dixon - Tools\
Phoebe Royer - Design/Engine\
Jackson Mclane - Engine\
Jack Sims - Tools/Design\
James Milestone - Engine/Tools

### Tools and materials

1.  The library we're using is Phaser. Since as a group we have more experience working with the phaser library from CMPM120. We also have some projects we had gotten inspired by to adapt to our final project. Because we have all taken CMPM120 and have used Phaser to prototype in other classes (CMPM179 and CMPM170), we think that there will be less friction with Phaser as the engine we're using.
2.  We will be transferring from Javascript to TypeScript in Phaser, we believe that it has better interchangability and as a team we understand the syntax better. We also believe using Phaser will better achieve the project we wish to create, so the most experience we have is Javascript, and now through this class now TypeScript. We chose to go from Javascript to Typescript because it will serve as motivation for keeping our Javascript code organized and typed strictly, in order to make the transition easy.
3.  We will be using: Github for version control, VSCode for our IDEs, Prettier as our styling tool, ESLint as a linter, LiveServer for testing before deployments, ChatGPT and Brace for debugging and style critique, the Live Share extension on VS Code to collaborate on the same files simultaneously, Discord Whiteboard for brainstorming and mind mapping, and Aesprite for our 2D art, if sound is needed Jack is going to use his synthesizer to create the sounds and the program Audacity to record and edit the sounds.
4.  We're going to be switching our language from JavaScript to TypeScript for our alternate platform. We figured this would be a quick swap, since its pretty much the same language, but it includes type casting. It should be pretty easy to swap to type script if we use Brace!

### Outlook

-   We are hoping to create something publishable, and eventually host our project on itch.io.
-   The hardest or riskiest part of the project is the impending shift from JavaScript to TypeScript.
-   We are hoping to learn how to each specialize within respective responsibilities so that we can provide the greatest benefit to our team based on the roles we chose.
